Theory/key-techniques.md, before:

# Key Techniques

## Note-Taking

Taking notes can be quite distracting, especially if you copy everything, which is a common mistake among students.
Write down only the most important points and names of concepts, and pay attention to understand the material.
It can be much more effective to engage in note-making than note-taking. After taking a concise set of notes, you can later enrich those notes with your questions and a summary.
Try to simplify the concepts in your summary as best you can.
Use your own words. You can refine it later.
This approach leverages the Feynman technique and enables you to engage in deeper-level processes.

## Practice Testing

Practice testing is a proven and highly effective method to improve learning outcomes. This technique engages deeper learning processes by actively challenging your thinking. Practice testing can also contribute to improved reading proficiency. Additionally, it can also help identify knowledge gaps, which is a crucial part of becoming a better learner.

## Distributed Practice

Distributed practice involves spacing out learning sessions instead of attempting to absorb a lot of information in a short amount of time (cramming). This approach leverages the brain's ability to encode information more effectively by encountering the same information repeatedly over time. Adopting this technique will lead to better learning outcomes and information retention.

## Retrieval Practice

Retrieval practice involves recalling previously learned information that has been stored and encoded in our memory. Practicing recalling techniques solidifies the neural pathways associated with the recalled information, making it more accessible in the future and strengthening the ability to retain information in the long term.

## Interleaving

Interleaving is a technique that involves mixing different topics during learning rather than focusing on one topic at a time. It is believed to improve learning, long-term retention, and the ability to transfer knowledge to new situations.
For example, rather than practicing addition in mathematics separately, it is better to involve different types of operations during the same study session.

Commit message:

feat(theory): update 'key-techniques.md' file

Theory/key-techniques.md, after:

# Key Techniques

## Note-Taking / Note-Making

Taking notes can be quite distracting, especially if you copy everything, which is a common mistake among students.
Write down only the most important points and names of concepts, and pay attention to understanding the material.
It can be much more effective to engage in note-making later than note-taking at the moment. After taking a concise set of notes, you can later enrich those notes with additional details, like questions and definitions, using the Feynman technique. This way, you will engage in deeper learning processes and improve your understanding of the material.

## Feynman Technique

The Feynman Technique involves explaining a complex concept in its simplest manner, which allows even people with limited prior knowledge to understand it. It involves a 4-step process:
- Writing down everything about the chosen or focused topic or concept based on prior knowledge or after receiving input
- Explaining the topic in simple terms as if teaching a child
- Reviewing and identifying gaps or problem areas in one’s understanding or explanation
- Simplifying the language further or creating analogies to understand it better

This technique is an effective learning technique that promotes deeper learning processes, helps identify knowledge gaps, and improves understanding of the material.

#### Feynman Technique - References 

Reyes, Englevert, Ron Blanco, Defanee Doroon, Jay Limana, and Ana Torcende. “Feynman Technique as a Heutagogical Learning Strategy for Independent and Remote Learning.” Recoletos Multidisciplinary Research Journal 9 (December 3, 2021): 1–13. https://doi.org/10.32871/rmrj2109.02.06

## Summaries

Summarization is not the most effective learning technique by itself, but it can be improved by utilizing other techniques with it, like the Feynman technique.
For example, try to summarize the material in such a way that you simplify the concepts in it as best you can.
Use your own words. You can refine it later.
This approach additionally leverages the Feynman technique for writing a summary and enables you to engage in deeper-level processes.

Additionally, you can also make this a more effective process by adding active recall (retrieval practice) to the mix.

## Practice Testing

Practice testing is a proven and highly effective method to improve learning outcomes. This technique engages deeper learning processes by actively challenging your thinking. Practice testing can also contribute to improved reading proficiency. Additionally, it can also help identify knowledge gaps, which is a crucial part of becoming a better learner.

## Distributed Practice

Distributed practice involves spacing out learning sessions instead of attempting to absorb a lot of information in a short amount of time (cramming). This approach leverages the brain's ability to encode information more effectively by encountering the same information repeatedly over time. Adopting this technique will lead to better learning outcomes and information retention.

## Retrieval Practice / Active Recall

Retrieval practice involves recalling previously learned information that has been stored and encoded in our memory. Practicing recalling techniques solidifies the neural pathways associated with the recalled information, making it more accessible in the future and strengthening the ability to retain information in the long term.

## Interleaving

Interleaving is a technique that involves mixing different topics during learning rather than focusing on one topic at a time. It is believed to improve learning, long-term retention, and the ability to transfer knowledge to new situations.
For example, rather than practicing addition in mathematics separately, it is better to involve different types of operations during the same study session.
